[Music]
good morning welcome to sunday breakfast
with chris mason and rachel bird our
headlines today
rolling out to the under 60s more than a
million people in england aged between
56 and 59
will be offered a coronavirus
vaccination a tale of two broadcasts
the royal family marked commonwealth day
just hours before the duke and duchess
of sussex's interview with oprah
good morning rangers are almost there
against the advice
fans gather outside ibrox to celebrate
after victory takes them to the brink of
their first
scottish premiership title in a decade
we also have a special visitor today
[Music]
[Applause]
and the goats butting in
on your work zoom calls
good morning it's quite a cold and a
frosty start to the morning for some of
us
but a mostly dry day ahead expect some
rain across parts of scotland
still fairly chilly for the time of year
i'll have all the details throughout the
morning's programme
good morning it is uh just after six
o'clock sunday the 7th of march our top
story people in their late
50s in england are now being invited to
book their coronavirus vaccination
letters sent to hundreds of thousands of
people between the ages of 56 and 59
began arriving yesterday with more
expected to be delivered tomorrow
here's our health correspondent nick
trigle
the nhs has given the green light to
those below
the age of 60 in england to start
getting their first dose of the covid
vaccine
people aged 56 to 59 are now able to go
online
or call 119 to book an appointment for
their jab job
letters have also been arriving at
people's homes inviting them to take up
the opportunity
there are 1.7 million people in this
latest
age group in england it comes after 21.8
million people in the uk
have been given their first dose so far
that's two-fifths of all adults
it's so important for everyone to take
up their offer when it's their turn
because it's the best way to protect you
to protect your loved ones and get back
to the lives that we've all
loved and missed so much and by
protecting yourself you're protecting
your community as well
so we really do urge you if you've been
offered the vaccination
take it up without delay so far more
than nine in ten people
aged 65 and over and those who are
clinically vulnerable have been
vaccinated
and the nhs has offered nearly all those
age 60 to 64 a jab
as well as younger adults with health
conditions it means the programme can
now move on to the under 60s
in fact some areas which have made the
most progress have already started doing
this
the aim is to offer all adults a first
jab by the end of july
ministers have said they are expecting
an increase in vaccine supply
during the second half of march and it
will not be long before the rest of
those
aged over 50 are invited for a jab
nick trigle bbc news
the royal college of nursing has said
the government's guidance on personal
protective equipment
is fundamentally flawed the trade union
has called for the recommendations to be
updated
saying they were based on out-of-date
evidence the department of health said
staff priority staff safety was a top
priority
the most anticipated royal interview for
years the controversial oprah winfrey
interview with the duke and duchess of
sussex airs in the u.s later tonight
just hours before the interview the
queen will address a uk
television audience to share her annual
commonwealth day message
our royal correspondent nicholas
whitchell has more
chambers it is a sharp divergence within
the royal family and over the next 24
hours
it will be sharply demonstrated by two
very different broadcasts
in the early hours of tomorrow uk time
the duke and duchess of sussex will
unburden themselves on u.s television it
will be a broadcast when as the preview
clips have shown
megan will explain why she needed to
escape from life within the royal
establishment
as an adult who lived a really
independent life
to then go into this construct that is
different than i think what people
imagine it to be
it's really liberating hours before the
sussex broadcast from westminster abbey
in london
the queen and other principal members of
the royal family will focus
on the covid pandemic in pre-recorded
messages to mark
commonwealth day they'll reflect on the
pandemic's impact around the world
amidst such heartbreaking suffering
however
the extraordinary determination courage
and creativity with which people have
responded
has been an inspiration to us all needs
looking after the duke and duchess of
cambridge will pay
tribute to health care workers catherine
and i've spoken to a lot of healthcare
workers in the uk and around the world
over the last year and we hear your
worries and your concerns and and
thank you for your time chatting to us
about it thank you you know for sharing
for us and
asking for help for us so thank you very
much
there will also be a pre-recorded
message to the commonwealth from the
queen
her theme the importance of working
together
nicholas witchell bbc news
the majority of parents in england will
be happy to send their children back to
school tomorrow but two-thirds are
concerned about the amount of learning
lost
a survey by the institute for fiscal
studies reveals some parents think that
child will never catch up our education
editor branwyn jeffries reports
it's been tough for parents
homeschooling while juggling work
but it's back to classrooms in england
tomorrow and most parents are relieved
almost 6 000 parents gave their views on
school return
around 90 percent support the return to
classrooms
more than 60 are worried about lost
learning
so it's no surprise that 80 percent
support tutoring
but parents also want creative and
outdoor activities
so how long do they think it will take
children to catch up
31 of parents who are concerned about
lost learning
think that it'll take their child a
whole year or longer to make up for
everything that they've lost out on over
the course of the pandemic
at the extreme end nine percent of
secondary school parents
think that their child won't be able to
make up for their lost learning ever
tutoring is already underway in some
schools a national programme in england
is part of catch-up
the government has committed 1.7 billion
pounds for this year and
next but faces calls for a longer term
plan
after that brownwin jeffries bbc news
the family of a woman who's been missing
since wednesday say they are
increasingly worried for her welfare
relatives of 33 year old sarah everard
say her disappearance is totally out of
character
detectives released this cctv image of
sarah the night she went missing
while walking home from a friend's house
in clapham in south london they are
appealing for information i think we've
got to
um carry on with our enquiries look for
where the evidence takes us
we're undergoing lots of inquiries at
the moment as i said around the clock
um we don't want to draw any conclusions
at this stage we're keeping an open mind
and as i say our main objective is to
locate
sarah and hopefully reunite her with her
family
pope francis is set to visit parts of
iraq that were once controlled by
islamic state militants on the third day
of his landmark trip to the country
in the city of mosul he's expected to
offer a prayer
for victims of war he'll also celebrate
mass at a football stadium
with up to 10 000 people due to attend
but there are some fears the service
could fuel
the spread of coronavirus the co-founder
of twitter has listed his first ever
tweet for sale
and bids have reached nearly two million
pounds
this was a very short message that jack
dorsey wrote back in march 2006 and it
read
just setting up my twitter with the
vowels missing from the final word
the highest bidder will get a special
digital certificate to prove they own
the tweet
but it will still be available for
anyone to view on the social media
platform
so i mean just why what what do i want a
digital certificate
when do i want it never i don't know
what he's doing with the two million and
it could well be that it's going to
good causes which is brilliant right but
i don't know what would possess anyone
to pay that amount of money
well i think it's interesting looking
back at that tweet from 2006 is the
all the rage then wasn't it was to drop
unnecessary letters
from your text messages because we were
all on pre-smartphone and typing things
out with the number keys and all that
connection
okay that kind of flashback free
smartphone i suppose it is a piece of
cultural history isn't it
yeah but it's kind of there for us all
to see isn't it yeah anyway
someone's gonna pay for it i don't know
how valuable your tweets would be chris
probably not quite
so much little pictures of your casio
alarm clock
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news